Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a mystery psychological
thriller film called "Before I go to sleep."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The film opens with an extreme close-up on
the bloodshot eye of Christine Lucas , a forty-years-old
woman who wakes up in a bedroom she does not
recognize.
She has no idea where she is and does not
recognize anything around her.
She realizes with shock that there is a middle-aged
man sleeping in the bed next to her.
She goes to the bathroom and finds pictures
taped to the wall of herself as a much older woman.
She also sees a picture of the man in the
bed next to her labeled....:“Ben, your husband”.
None of it rings a bell.
Confronting the man in the bedroom, he tells
her that he is her husband, Ben.
They have been married for decades.
He tells her she was involved in a terrible
car accident 10 years earlier...that left
her with brain damage.
Every evening when she goes to sleep, she
forgets everything; waking up with a blank
slate the next morning, with no memory of
her life from her early twenties onwards.
Ben has to go through the same routine every
morning.
He shows Christine photographs, while telling
her the story of their romance and marriage.
Ben then gets ready for work and leaves to
go teach at a nearby school.
While Christine looks around the house, a
neurologist named Dr. Nasch calls the house.
He informs her that she has been in treatment
with him for the past few years.
He tells her to locate a video camera which
is hidden inside her closet.
Dr. Nasch tells Christine not to inform Ben
of the camera.
He tells her to watch the videos and to call
him back.
Christine watches a video diary of herself,
which she is unfamiliar with.
She has recorded a video diary over the last
two weeks, prompting an extended flashback
to illustrate what she’s learned so far.
She then meets Dr. Nasch, who explains that
she has been seing him for some time without
her husband’s knowledge.
He tries to help her deal with her condition.
Dr. Nasch further reveals that her memory
loss occurred ten years ago... after she was
attacked and left for dead near an airport
hotel.
However, she is very confused.
Her husband, Ben, said that she had a car
accident.
She wonders why Ben lied to her about the
cause of her amnesia.
Dr. Nasch suggests...perhaps it’s just easier.
Dr. Nasch then takes her back to where she
was found after the attack, hoping it would
trigger her memory.
She was found by the airport.
The man who found her explains...that it was
a long time ago.
She was found with blood all over her body;
she was naked (apart from plastic sheet from
a nearby hotel).
She questions...why would she be staying in
a hotel, which Dr Nasch suggests she was having
an affair.
The medical examination indicated she had
sexual intercourse just before the attack.
Later that evening, she’s back home and
begins to record her new discovery.
At night, when she sleeps, flash-cut memories
emerge; the moment she got attacked by someone
in a hotel.
The next day, Dr. Nasch shows her some pictures;
some were taken from random, others from her file.
One particular picture causes distinct neural
excitation.
The picture of a red-haired woman named Claire.
At home, when she asks Ben about this.
Ben tells her that Claire was her best friend
who couldn't handle Christine's condition
after the accident; she has moved abroad and
ended contact with Christine.
Ben then shows her pictures with Claire, saying
he kept this hidden from her...to protect her
The next day, Christine gets flashes of memory
and recalls that she had a son.
She angrily confronts Ben over hiding their
child.
However, to her surprise, he says their son
named Adam, died of meningitis when he was
eight.
He has been keeping all these secrets away
from her....to protect her from reliving the
pain of that experience
Afterward, while crying, she continues to
record this painful discoveries.
While sleeping, Christine continues to struggle
with her memories of baby Adam, which culminate
in a wickedly weird dream; a dream where Adam
leaves her a drawing of a man with a scar
on his face.
The picture is labeled “Mike.”
The next morning, she tells Dr. Nasch that
she thinks Mike was the name of the man she
had an affair with; he was her attacker.
Nasch hugs her to comfort her…he almost
kisses her.
However, his jacket opens to reveal his hospital
I.D. and his full name.
“Mike Nasch.”
She sees a vision where Nasch attacks her
in a hotel.
Christine immediately pulls back and runs
from him.
But he catches her and administers a sedative,
leaving her at home.
Later that day, her phone rings.
It’s Dr Nasch.
He tells her that he administered a mild sedative
to calm her down.
He explains to her that she experienced what
they call “confabulation”; her imagination
filling in the gaps in her memory, turning
him into the man who did this to her.
The next day, Christine again meets Dr. Nasch.
He doesn't feel he can treat her anymore,
because he has feelings for her ;and it’s
completely unprofessional.
Before they part, Dr. Nasch tells her a shocking
revelation.
In 2007, Ben had placed her in an assisted
care facility and later in 2009, he divorced
her, leaving her in the care facility.
Furthermore, her best friend, Claire, had
been trying to contact her at the care facility.
Nasch then gives Claire's phone number to
her.
After hearing that revelation, Christine angrily
confronts her husband, asking the reason he
divorced her 4 years ago.
She demands to know the truth.
There, he reveals...that when they lost their
son, he got depressed, so he divorced her,
leaving her in the care facility.
However, he soon changed his mind and came
back to her.
He promises that he will never leave her again.
Knowing this truth, Christine understands
his situation ,and she hugs him.
Later that day, Christine contacted her best
friend, Claire.
As she hears Claire’s voice, she begins
to get glimpses of her past memories with
Claire.
They agree to meet at a local park..
On their meeting, Claire reveals that Christine
had embarked on an affair prior to her attack
and they often met in a hotel.
Claire then explains why their relationship
drifted apart.
Christine's husband (Ben) and Claire had a one-time sexual encounter,
due to their shared grief at Christine's memory loss
Feeling obliged to keep Ben and Christine's
marriage intact, Claire ended contact with
her and stay away from their lives.
After apologising, Claire gives Christine
a letter written to her by Ben.
Ben sent this to her shortly before they got
separated.
He asked Claire to give it to Christine should
she ever be well enough to read it.
In the letter, Ben tells Christine that he
loves her, but he had to place her in the
care facility due to her condition.
She looked happy there.
He decided to leave her for their son Adam’s
sake.
Adam was unable to understand her memory loss
and begun to be afraid of her.
Ben believed for Adam’s sake that they needed
to leave her and he begs her to understand.
After reading this letter, Christine understands
how difficult it was for Ben to deal with
Christine's amnesia.
Out of gratitude for his love and care, Christine
records a video, saying that Ben is her lover
and protector and she wants to make a life
with him.
At night, she decides to let Ben see the videos
she has made on the digital camera; she also
tells him that she has been seeing Dr Nasch
for quite some time.
She admits she didn’t trust Ben before,
but she completely trusts him now.
However, Ben angrily accuses Christine of
having an affair with Nasch; he strikes her
and storms out.
On the telephone, Christine talks to Claire
about what just happened.
Claire is confused, because she knows Ben;
and he is a very good gentleman; he will never
strike her like that.
So Claire decides to give Ben a call.
A few moments later, Claire rings Christine
back.
She tells Christine that Ben claims not to
have seen Christine for 4 years.
Claire asks Christine to describe the "Ben"
she is living with; whether he has a scar
across the right side of his face.
She checks Ben’s picture; no scar.
That moment, they realize....the man she is
living with is not Ben.
The wedding photo is fake.
Christine immediately attempts to escape the
house, but "Ben" renders her unconscious.
The next morning, Christine again awakens
with no memories .She finds the camera
and sees her entry saying she loves "Ben"
and wants to make a life with him.
"Ben" calls Christine and tells her to pack,
that they are going on a trip that night.
That night, "Ben" takes her to a hotel close
to where she had been found.
In the hotel room, she gets glimpses of what
happened 10 years ago.
He reveals that he is Mike, the man she had
an affair with.
Christine then remembers that Mike had wanted
Christine to reveal their affair to Ben, but
Christine refused and their argument culminated
in Mike viciously attacking Christine, resulting
in her amnesia.
He also inadvertently reveals that Christine's
son Adam is still alive.
Declaring his love for Christine, Mike deletes
the videos on her camera and states that he
is no longer interested in playing the part
of Ben.
He tells Christine that they shall live together,
or no one shall live.
Another struggle ensues, but this time Christine
knocks Mike out and gets away.
She sets off the hotel fire alarm while running
from the hotel and is seen telling her story
on the camera while waiting in an ambulance.
Christine wakes up in a hospital bed and is
visited by Nasch, this time as a friend and
not as her therapist.
He assures her the man responsible for her
condition (Mike) has been arrested.
He tells Christine that she has visitors and
that he hopes the visit will provide the breakthrough
they have been hoping for.
The real Ben comes to visit Christine.
And he’s brought someone else: Adam, who
never died of meningitis.
As she sees Adam entering her room, her memories
return.
With tears full of joy, the two of them hug
each other, and the movie ends.
Now, for the explanation...
I will explain the sequence of events that
happened...prior to the events in the movie.
In 1999, Christine and Ben got married.
But not this Ben; the real Ben.
In August 1999, their son, Adam, was born
After 4 years, in 2003, Chritine had an affair
with Mike.
Mike wanted Christine to reveal their affair
to Ben, but Christine refused and their argument
culminated in Mike viciously attacking Christine,
resulting in her amnesia.
Due to her condition, Ben placed her in an
adult community care centre.
Ben, and her son, Adam, visited her daily.
But they had to suffer....as they needed to
remind her of her identity daily.
During this time, her best friend, Claire
helped the family, and got closer to Ben.
One day, Ben and Claire had a one-time sexual
encounter, due to their shared grief at Christine's
memory loss.
Feeling guilty, Claire decided to stay away
from their lives.
After a few years, Christine’s condition
hadn’t got any better.
Ben couldn't go on any more.
Their son, Adam, grew desperately unhappy.
In 2009, Ben and Adam left Christine for Adam’s
sake; they left her in the care facility,
not visiting her anymore.
Mike used this opportunity to disguise as
her husband.
Mike forged Ben’s signature and took her
home with him.
For 4 years, she was tricked into thinking
that he was her husband.
Until one day, she met Dr. Nasch, who gave
her a camera to record her thoughts and progress
each day.
What happens next are the events that you
saw in the film.
And that’s my explanation for the movie.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.